SOLAPUR
"This prominent district in
Maharashtra comprises of 16
villages and is particularly known
for its handloom, cotton,
powerloom and beedi industries.
River Bhima and river Sina are the
two major rivers that flow through
this town, which serves as a major
trading route between
Maharashtra and Karnataka."

Famous For:
Located at the south-east edge of
Maharashtra in Bheema and Seena basins,
Solapur is majorly important city in the
country from the industrial point of view.
The city houses the giant textile mills, sugar mills, and beedi units. The city boasts as the first in Maharashtra to have first waste-to- energy electricity plant. Solapur also has world's second largest spinning mill. Since it is a major industrial town, it is the 49th most populated city in India with a large urban agglomeration.
Apart from being an industrial township, the city also has some historical and religious significance. Akkalkot has a famous temple where many devotees come to worship daily. Barshi is another town famous for only temple of Lord Vishnu where he is called Bhagwant. Solapur Fort or Bhuikot palace was built in 14th century and attracts large crowd of tourists. Siddeshwar Temple and Lake is temple of Lord Shiva with picturesque view of gigantic fort in the backdrop. There are other temples n the city of religious importance.
Solapur also offers many natural retreats to
enjoy the beauty. Pandahrpur at the
outskirts of town is a land of scenic beauty
with charming Hipparga Lake. Pandharpur is known as the Dakshin Kashi of India and is heavenly abode of Lord Vittal. He is the
most revered deity in Maharashtra.
Sambhaji Lake or Kambar Talav is another
beautiful lake of ancient ties. Maldhok Bird
sanctuary, in Karmala district, is an abode
for bird watchers and lets you witness the
rare and exotic bird species. Motibaug Tank is another good place for bird watching. Nannaji Wildlife sanctuary is a habitat for some rare species, Great Indian Bustard being one of them. Mangalvedha is an agricultural town and also a birthplace of holy saint Teekacharya. Sangola, the municipar district of Solapur, is famous for pomegrenate production. There are also many nearby historical places, Golden Sangola and Ambika Devi temple being few of them. Solapur is an amalgamation of historical, religious, and industrial interests.

WHAT TO SEE:
1) Sambhaji Lake:
      Konark Nagar, Jule, Solapur,
Maharashtra 413004, India

The
Sambhaji Lake is a well known attraction in
the city where you will see locals flocking in
the evening and weekends for a fresh
breath of air or just a long walk along the
banks. You could also try your hand in
fishing here!

2) Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary.
     Tembhurni Road, SH77, Kurduvadi,
Maharashtra, India

Located in Solapur region
of Maharashtra,Great Indian
Bustard Sanctuary was established in the
year 1979 and since then it has been a
perfect abode for the Great Indian
Bustard. Spread across lush greenery, the
place is a must visit attraction for locals and tourists alike.

3) Akkalkot Swami Temple
Juna Adat Bazaar, Vidyanagar, Akkalkot, Solapur, Maharashtra 

Akkalkot is a Holy place of Shri.Swami Samarth Maharaj. It is located at a distance of 38 kms. by road from Solapur District headquarters. This Saint is believed to be the reincarnation of Lord Dattatraya. The Samadhi of this Saint is worshipped by the devotees. The Death Anniversary is celebrated on Chaitra Shuddha Trayodashi every year. Large number of devotees visit the place everyday.
The present temple is built around famous banyan tree. This is the same banyan tree sitting under which Shri.Swami Maharaj used to meditate and preach the followers. The temple consists of main temple, sabha mandap and accommodation. Annacchatra (free meals to devotees) is organized daily (two times in day) by temple authorities.

4) shri.vittal and rukmini temple 

Main Road, Chouphala, Pandharpur, Maharashtra 413304

This is a holy place of Shri.Vitthal and Shri.Rukmini. It is also known as the Southern Kashi of India and Kuldaivat of Maharashtra State. It is located at a distance of 72 kms by road. from Solapur District headquarters. The Pandharpur Railway Station falls on the Miraj-Kurduwadi-Latur railway track.

The ancient temple of Shri.Vitthal was renovated in 1195 A.D. There are many other temples of Indian Dieties and Mathas (Dharmshalas) of many Saints. The Chandrabhaga (Bhima) river flows through the City. Large number of devotees from all over Maharashtra and surrounding States gather at Pandharpur mainly to celebrate the Aashadhi and Kartiki Ekadashis every year in addition to the regular rush of devotees everyday.