SANGLI
"A major city in western India, Sangli
is located on the banks of river
Krishna. The city has many
historical landmarks along with
religious sites which make this
place a popular tourist spot."

FAMOUS FOR
Located at the confluence of Warna and
Krishna rivers, Sangli is one of the popular tourist locations in the state of Maharashtra. The city is known for its turmeric trade, grapes and sugar factories and thus sometimes called the 'Turmeric City'. Famed for the Marathi drama, which originated here, Sangli's traditional folk dance is Lavani while Ganesh Puja is the main festival.
There are number of tourist attractions in
Sangli for travelers to visit. There are
spellbinding Gokak waterfalls with swinging bridges on the waterfall. Sagareshwar wildlife sanctuary has the exotic wild species to enjoy the flora and fauna. Dandobha Hill station located near Sangli is the perfect getaway into hills. Chandoli forests are another lush greener forests to experience the beauty of mother nature. There are also holy temples in Sangli of great importance like Sangmeshwar temple and Ganpati
temple.

WHAT TO SEE

1) Chandoli National Park 

Among the places to visit in Sangli, this one is a must. It used to be a wildlife sanctuary previously. Currently, Chandoli National Park has the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve in its southern portion. In the northern portion of the forest is the Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary. This is quite a large National park with a large variety of animals to see. The forest is a mix of the Malabar Coast moist forests and the North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests –given the fact that the National park is located in the western coastal region. The trees like Indian Gooseberry, Crape Myrtle, Ajani Ironwood Tree, Jamun, Pisa, Katak, Spinous Kino tree are quite common here. There are also a large number of fauna found here – 23 species of mammals and 122 species of birds. Apart from that you will also come across 20 species of amphibians and reptiles – that are common in this area.

2) Gokak Waterfall 

The Gokak waterfall is located a little away from the main city of Sangli. It occurs on the river Sangli. This beautiful waterfall is generally compared to the Niagara Falls mainly for its height, shape and rapidity. The waterfalls to a depth of 177 metres. During the monsoons the water becomes quite murky and falls with a dull noise that can be heard from a distance. The waterfall gets its name from the Goki trees that are found around in this place. A short trekking trip away from the falls lays a number of Chalukya monuments waiting to be explored.

3) bahubali Hill Temple

This is one of the top tourist attractions in Sangli. This temple is located a little away from the main city of Sangli. The Bahubali hills are popularly known as Kumbhojgiri. It houses a 28 ft tall statue of the saint Bahubali. It is believed that the sage Bahubali meditated here 400 years ago. Worshippers come to this place from all over the country to offer their prayers. Apart from the statue there are also statues of the Tirthankaras. There are a number of other temples, each of which is named after the hills they are located on. The location of the temple itself presents a spectacular view to watch. Apart from offering prayers, one must definitely spend some time at the temple itself – the beauty of the surrounding hills makes climbing the 400 steps all the more worthwhile.

4) sagareshwar wildlife sanctuary 

This is a man-made wildlife sanctuary that attracts a large crowd of tourists to the place. The sanctuary is considered to be one of the best tourist places in Sangli which covers a total area of 10.87 square kilometres which mostly comprises of forest cover on grassy slopes. This place is home to a large variety of flora and fauna that includes wild goats, rabbits, deer, jackals, peacocks, blackbucks, cheetal, sambar, barking deer, porcupine and such other species. There are also a large number of insects, reptiles and birds thriving here. There are a number of places of archaeological, religious and cultural significance like the Shiva Temple, the Sagareshwar Temple and others. The most beautiful part of this site is the panoramic view that one gets of the Krishna River and the surrounding sugarcane and vineyards.

5) Dandobha Hills Forest Reserve 

This forest reserve is rich in flora and fauna and this is also one of those unexplored forests of India. There are many historical sites within the forest reserves that are waiting to be explored. The most popular temple here is the Shiva temple. Locals come here daily to offer their prayers. The hills of the forest reserve are ideal for a hiking tour and ideal for adventure seekers. There are also provisions for water sports at the Bhose Irrigation Lake. Make sure to get your swim wear when you come here so that you can enjoy in the waters of the lake. The most interesting fact about the place is that this could probably have been mentioned in the Epic Ramayana, as the forests of Dandakaranya which makes it one of the best