Satara:
"Satara, a place bestowed with
historical abundance, is also known
for its natural landscape.
Surrounded by seven hills and
situated near the converging point
of two rivers, it will surely to
impress you."
The unique statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji at
Satara is a mark of the legacy left by the
Maratha empire. This journey of amazing
landmarks will continue with the colourfully
flowered Kas plateau, a World Heritage Site. Ancient forts like Ajinkyatara Fort and
gushing waterfalls, Satara also houses the
Satara Musuem, dedicated to Shivaji
himself. Do try the famous sweet, Kadi
Pedhe, as you sit on top of Yawateshwar
hills and see the twinkling road lights below.

 What to see :
1) Kaas Plateau: Kaas, Satara,Maharashtra, India 
Kaas Plateau is located around 130 kms
away from Pune. It was declared a
UNESCO biodiversity site in
2012. Some parts of the plateau
are barricaded while others are
free for tourists to visit. However there are
basic instructions everywhere to prevent
any damage to the natural heritage of the
place. Several unique, exotic and
endangered species of plants and flowers
can be found here.
The plateau also known as Kaas
Pathar, is spread across 1000
hectares and houses around 600 varieties of
flowers. Some species of flowers that one
can find here are - Dipcadi Montanum,
Pogostemon deccanensis, Murdannia
lanuginosa, etc. The Sahyadri range of
mountains and the Sajjangadd Fort are also visible at a distance.

2)Thoseghar Waterfalls: thoseghar,Satara,Maharashtra, India 
 Thoseghar, Satara, Maharashtra
41503, India

Thoseghar Waterfalls is a scenic spot
located near Satara in Maharasthra. There
are a series of waterfalls, some of them 15
to 20 metres and one about 500 metres
high. People come from all over the country
to visit the area, especially during the
monsoons (July to November). The
immediate area is calm and quiet, with a
clean lake and dark woods surrounding the
waterfalls. There is a picnic area and a
platform which gives a good view of the
waterfall.

3) Mahabaleshwar :Satara,Maharashtra, india
    Mahableshwar is the best hill station of Maharashtra. It is situated about 4500 ft. above sea level on the Sahyadri spurs. It was the erstwhile summer capital of Old Bombay Presidency. The tourists are enthralled by its exotic greenery, beautiful gardens & breath-taking scenery. Numerous majestic mansions built during the British days still stand as monuments of the Raj. The favorite season for visiting is from March to June.It is well connected by roads.
Places of interest is called as “Point” in Mahabaleshwar as most of them are at the end of mountains.
4) Vajrai waterfall: Bhambavli, satara maharashtra ,india
       Bhambavli Vajrai Waterfall is the tallest waterfall of India. The height of this waterfall is 1840 ft (560m) and it falls from a straight cliff having three steps (stages). The water for waterfall comes from the river Urmodi. It is origin of river Urmodi. The waterfall is situated in district of Satara in western Maharashtra. It is about 5 km away from well-known Kas Flower Valley and 2 km away from Bhambavli Flower Valley. The lush green mountains and the flowers in nearby flower valley please your senses. The pleasant weather actually relaxes you like anything. But the star attraction of this place is tranquility. The place is simply deserted and there are no hawkers, unwanted guides and cameramen to disturb you. The waterfall is perennial in nature and hence you will hardly find any day when it’s gone dry (flows 12 months in a year).
5) Sajjangad Fort: parali,Maharashtra, Satara,india
   Sajjangad Fort is a prominent tourist location and one of the many known hill forts of Maharashtra or broadly “western India”. Sajjangad which literally means ‘fort of good people’ is a fort that is located in a region that is near Satara. It is one of the prime tourism spots that attract a large gamut of people who come to the fort for either weekend holiday purpose or for sightseeing. The Maharashtra tour can never be considered complete without visiting Sajjangad. This is a fort that is not merely a place of historical eminence and relics. It is more of a devotional and a religious abode that happens to be the final resting place of the great 17th century Indian religious icon Sant Ramdas. Sant Ramdas’s teachings have been compiled into books like Dasbodh. Sajjangad hence is a very popular place for pilgrimage purposes and also reflects the ancient heritage of the place. Historical remnants say that the fort has a history that can be traced back a long time in the past. The fort has seen a number of authorities ruling over it and has been captured and recaptured by different political powers of the nation.
6) Ajinkyatara : satara, india
  The Fort of Ajinkyatara is one of the most important pillars in the history of Maharashtra. This hill fort was under the control of Shivaji Maharaj during the 16th century and has seen some of the most important events of the Maratha and the contemporary history. The word ‘Ajinkyatara’ literally means ‘the impregnable fort’. It is one of the most stunning specimens of Maratha architecture in Satara. The fort provides a spectacular view of the entire Satara city and is a popular place of sightseeing in the current times. It is based at a height of 33000 feet or 1010 meters above the sea level. Tourists can see the TV tower for Sighhagad in Satara near the fort presently. It also has the TV Tower for Pune. The fort is a great tourist attraction as well. The place around the Ajinkyatara Fort is one of the perfect trekking grounds of Maharashtra. Hence this place is suitable for the trekkers who are mere beginners. 

WHERE TO EAT:
1) Manas restaurant 
        Survey No 136, Kesarkar Peth
Opposite Muncipal Council, Satara,
412805,Maharsathra, India
+91-82756-60753
2)HOTEL MILE STONE
PUNE BANGALORE HIGHWAY,Satara
3) Ambrosia Bakery
      Powai Naka, Satara ,India 
4) Hotel Amrapali 
     Near waghachi nali devi chowk,Satara, India